# e-Help (emergency-Help)
Building AI course project
## Summary: 
E-Help (emergency-Help) is a small device, like a bracelet, watch or ring, collecting biometric data on real time, capable of distinguish if the person is unconcious or dead, based on vital signs, and immediately sendind a message to the emergency line without the need of the person's interaction. It is my final project for the Building AI course, Reaktor Innovations and University of Helsinki.
## Background: When old people live alone they might feel ill, get unconcious or even die at home and no one knows because they are not able to communicate or ask for help. In UE people are getting older and older and isolation is a big problem of our society. Many elders live alone because they are still active but suddenly something might happen: heart attack, brain stroke, dangerous fall or even death. In big cities neighbours don’t even know each other, and friends and relatives aren’t always around. In the country people live far from each ohter. Sometimes when help arrives it’s too late and the damage is irreparable, but if help is fast enough people will be able to recover, most of the time with no sequels. The device would send a message to the emergency line and to a designated person (family, friend, etc.), informing about their vital signs dropping, in case of unconsciousness, lack of movement or death, using a Wi-Fi internet signal.
## How it's used? The user must have the e-Help device in contact with the body, either on the wrist or finger, as it should be able to get vital signs, such as heartbeat, pulse or blood pressure. 
## Data and AI techniques: Health and vital signs, biometric signs. Data values based on previous exams or diseases. All this should be gathered and used to program the device. Than some models should be applied, like Linear regression to validate health, Logistic regression to distinguish between being alive or dead and Neural network, as there are many inputs such as blood pressure, cholesterol, diabetes, obesity, etc. that should be considered. Smartwatches and Health Apps already check vital signs, and other devices like the diabetes meter also inform about glucose’s values, this data can be used to make e-Help even more accurate. 
## Target and people involved: People who live alone, older people. The device would send a text message to the emergency line with GPS location of the user, informing about possible unconsciousness or death. The message would also be sent to another person, a relative or a close friend, chosen before by the user. The user won’t have to do anything else, just use the device (programed in advance using, for example, a smartphone or a computer, with some features: contact number, emergency number, previous health problems). Than nothing else needs to be done. The AI would be able to measure vital signs and identify if the user is dead or unconscious. Doctors and nurses in the emergency line need to pay extra attention to the e-Help messages.
## Problems: Lack of battery; Lack of GPS or Internet loss; if vital signs are too low it might be confused with death. It must be on the person all the time. Nurses and doctors in the emergency line can’t make a precise diagnosis, but based on previous illnesses or condition they can predict what it might be (but not 100% sure), still help will get sooner in either case.
## What next? In a second phase it can also be used in children and babies. Also it will be capable of diagnosing with more accuracy.
## Credits and previous studies: Samsung is about to launch a ring to check biometric data and analyse them, but in a health and fitness way (similar to smartwatches). The Health Kiosk (Modular Health Kiosk based on Web Technologies), allows users to check blood pressure, weight and oxygen levels, organizing the data in a data base. All these previous studies and existing apps could be used to develop and perfect the e-Help. 
## Acknowledgments: Silva, J.; Brandão, P. and Prior, R. (2017). Modular Health Kiosk based on Web Technologies. In Proceedings of the 10th International Joint Conference on Biomedical Engineering Systems and Technologies (BIOSTEC 2017) - SmartMedDev; ISBN 978-989-758-213-4; ISSN 2184-4305, SciTePress, pages 517-525. DOI: 10.5220/0006297705170525
